So we are heading back to hooks, we spent
a bunch of time on class components.
And let's go back to using some hooks now.
And let's talk about context.
Now historically, in this class,
I haven't talked about context,
because prior to react 16
context was kind of like
this unofficial API that worked fairly
well but like was kinda hard to use.
We had other things like Redux that
kind of did it as well or better.
But with context, they kind of refigured
it out and it got a lot better.
So now I'm actually
happy to teach you this.
It's useful occasionally.
It's a it's a sledgehammer,
so don't use it all the time.
You'll muddy up your code base and
make things less Obvious which is the,
React's big advantage here is that
the codes very obvious when you read it,
like this does this, this does this.
It's very easy to like read sequentially.
Context adds indirection to that, right?
So it adds like, okay,
something's happening here, but
it actually occurred
all the way over here.
That's occasionally useful, and
I'll show in a second exactly what I mean.
But just be aware that it's not
something you want to use all the time.
So let's pretend that we have a theme,
and this could be for
something like Dark Mode, right?
So let's say you wanted to implement
Dark Mode on your In your application, and
you actually needed to like physically
move components around if dark mode was
engaged or something like that.
Not typically the case, but
we're going to use that as our example.
If you have dark mode, it affects
more than just like one component.
It affects every component
in your application, right?
It's just like universal global state for
your application.
And then that's where
context is very useful.
Let's say like a user logs in,
you're probably going to store
the your user information in context.
Because basically every component in
your application probably needs to know
Something about the user.
But let's say let's talk about
like here with like Luna.
I don't need to know what active
picture is in context, right?
That's, that's great to
live just in the component.
So that's when you only use
context when it's on global state.
That's what I want to get out.
Even then not always.
But let's get into it and then I'll
let you make your own judgments here.
So let's make a new file called
theme context ThemeContext.js.
It's gonna be very short.
Import create context from.
To react const theme context equals
create context.Block like that,
and then export default theme context.
Now, typically this is enough.
Typically you don't need anything
more than what I've shown you here.
You can provide and you should probably
provide a default value here for
contacts that kind of looks
like hooks in that capacity.
So I could say like green here or
something like Like that,
this would be like the default value if
you created a theme context without giving
it anything which you
should basically never do.
The other thing is if you
provided a value here,
TypeScript can read it automatically,
and type your context for you.
So in other words you should just do this.
So the default value that we're going to
give it is actually going to be a hook.
We're going to use context and
hooks together.
So I'm gonna say createContext with green,
and
a function,
That's just gonna be an empty function.
You can also just put function here.
Now, the reason why we're doing it this
way is This is just a default value that
we never expect to actually call.
But we wanna just signify
the TypeScript basically,
I'm basically only doing this for
TypeScript.
This is gonna be a function.
And I've seen people put like
function dot prototype here as well.
Don't do that.
I think that's weird.
Just do an empty function.
I think I haven't made notes like that.
So that's because the second thing
in a hook is always a function.
That's why we do that.
The second thing and use state
specifically is always a function.
All right, so let's go to app.js And
here we're going to import,
Theme context from that
slash theme context.
Then at the top of the hour,
we also have to import use state.
From react, I'm gonna say const useState.
Not useState, const theme = useState.
And we're gonna start with dark blue,
but pick your favorite CSS color.
Mine's not dark blue, but
that's what I have my notes for.
We're gonna stick with it.
Okay.
Now remember eustache gives you
back like theme and set theme, but
I'm in Purposely putting
this is just like one thing.
You can even call this like theme
hook if you wanna be more clear.
You might not say to
have it just as theme.
So we're gonna do that.
So wrap your app here.
We're going to call this
ThemeContext.Provider.
And we're going to say
the value is equal to theme.
And this is going to be a React component
that wraps our entire application.
So what is this?
This is basically the same like
everything inside of this.
So in our case, our entire application
is now wrapped in a provider.
So now everything inside of
this can access this context.
So now anything inside of like everything
down to details and carousel and error
boundary, all those components can say,
Hey, what's my theme at the moment, right?
So that's giving.
That's the theme available
available everywhere.
Otherwise why would I have to do,
I'd have to say, well I guess details,
you need theme.
Some one say is theme equals theme and
you just be passing these theme properties
from component to component to
component to component, right?
Let's say you wanted to use it inside
of carousel I have to be theme to theme
then I have to go inside In details.
D cells that have to pass
that into carousel, right?
This is called prop drilling we have
to prop pass it from parent to child,
parent to child parent to child
until it eventually get to
the place that you want to.
That's kind of one of the things that
context psalteries the prop drilling
problem of passing these
along too frequently.